# 2.1 - Accessibility

**The built-in accessibility features of Next.js:**

The Next.js team is committed to making Next.js accessible to all developers (and their end-users). By adding accessibility features to Next.js by default, we aim to make the Web more inclusive for everyone.

## Route Announcements

When transitioning between pages rendered on the server (e.g. using the `<a href>` tag) screen readers and other assistive technology announce the page title when the page loads so that users understand that the page has changed.

In addition to traditional page navigations, Next.js also supports client-side transitions for improved performance (using next/link).

To ensure that client-side transitions are also announced to assistive technology, Next.js includes a route announcer by default.

The Next.js route announcer looks for the page name to announce by first inspecting document.title, then the `<h1>` element, and finally the URL pathname. For the most accessible user experience, ensure that each page in your application has a unique and descriptive title.

## Linting

Next.js provides an integrated ESLint experience out of the box, including custom rules for Next.js. By default, Next.js includes eslint-plugin-jsx-a11y to help catch accessibility issues early, including warning on:

```bash
aria - props
aria - proptypes
aria - unsupported - elements
role - has - required - aria - props
role - supports - aria - props
```

For example, this plugin helps ensure you add alt text to img tags, use correct aria-\* attributes, use correct role attributes, and more.

## Accessibility Resources

```bash
WebAIM WCAG checklist
WCAG 2.2 Guidelines
The A11y Project
Check color contrast ratios between foreground and background elements
Use prefers-reduced-motion when working with animations
```

---

### [2.2 - Fast Refresh](/src/docs/architecture/2.2.md#22---fast-refresh)
